# Introduction

The rule of law is one of the common values upon which the European Union (EU) is founded and represents a constitutional priority shared by all Member States (Article 2 of the Treaty on EU). Adherence to this principle requires the proper functioning of democratic institutions of governance that enable the authorities to be accountable for their actions, as well as equal access to justice in impartial courts that protect people's fundamental rights. The rule of law's construction and maintenance requires specific and evidence-informed solutions at the national and subnational levels, considering people's views.

World Justice Project EUROVOICES provides new data that captures the perceptions and experiences of people living in 110 subnational regions across the 27 EU Member States in the areas of justice, democracy, and the rule of law. It is based on surveys to more than 8,000 local and independent legal experts, as well as household surveys to more than 64,000 respondents. With this data, the World Justice Project (WJP) seeks to contribute to evidence-based decision-making processes at all government levels and help decision makers in identifying strengths, weaknesses, and policy priorities in their regions. Regional information was produced following the framework of territorial divisions of the Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics (NUTS) system.

This data is organized into three **thematic reports**:

1. Democracy & Fundamental Rights [add link]
2. Justice & Safety [add link]
3. Corruption & Transparency [add link]

Each report contains a collection of indicators calculated using the responses of the expert surveys (Expert Scorecard) and complemented with question-level data from WJP's household surveys (People's Voices). The results of these two data collection methods are presented side-by-side, resulting in a comprehensive picture that portrays how people perceive and experience justice, governance, and the rule of law.

This report (“Corruption & Transparency”) includes three chapters: (1) **Control of corruption**, (2) **Transparency and access to information**, and (3) **Administrative proceedings, regulatory enforcement, and right to property**. Each chapter contains thematic findings, definitions for each indicator included, as well as graphs with data from both the expert and household surveys (Expert Scorecard and People's Voices, respectively).

The Expert Scorecard captures legal experts' assessments through 49 composite indicators with scores ranging from 0 to 1, where 1 is the highest possible score and 0 is the lowest possible score. Each score is calculated by aggregating a set of questions that touch on various dimensions of the concept at hand. Through expert surveys, it is possible to probe more deeply into technical aspects regarding how people interact with a complex network of institutions and the justice system.  In contrast, the data from the People's Voices database is presented at the question-level and using percentages (0 to 100%), which reflect the beliefs and experiences of the general population.

The project's conceptual framework was designed building upon the tested and proven methodology of the WJP Rule of Law Index® (a rigorous quantitative tool that evaluates and ranks 142 countries across key dimensions of the rule of law), with adaptations to reflect the institutional architecture in the EU. It should be noted that the results of both tools are not directly comparable because, in this project, data from the general population poll is presented separately instead of being integrated into the aggregate scores. In addition, adjustments have been made to the conceptual framework and to the analysis of the data, including in the methods being used to calculate scores. For more information on the project's methodology, please refer to the methodology section at the end of this report [add link].

Given the diversity of institutional designs across EU Member States, the questions included in our survey instruments mainly focus on outcomes experienced by individuals with respect to different justice, governance, and rule of law issues, with the understanding that these outcomes are generated by their interaction with a complex network of institutions from different levels (local, national, supranational). In this sense, we minimized mentions of government institutions, and instead focused on the perceptions and experiences of people in the city, town, or village where they live.

This project is funded by the EU and complements other research activities being conducted by the WJP with the mission of advancing the rule of law worldwide. This data may also complement other monitoring tools that aim to promote a rule of law culture in the EU, including the European Commission's yearly Rule of Law Report and the EU Justice Scoreboard, among others.
